Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming and in today's tutorial
we're going to learn some new geometries.
We're going to be talking about
histograms and density charts and
actually as you already know, histograms
are also statistics. So it's going to be
something like this. We're going to be
talking about geometries and we're going
to be talking about statistics at the same time.
So let's go into R studio,
ok, histograms and density charts
so far we've only been working of points
and a little bit with lines. How about
we create a new one? So let's start with
a new variable, let's start with s and we'll call
GGplot, here we'll say as we usually do
data equals movies and then
aesthetics x equals budget millions and
that's all. We're actually not going to
use a second aesthetic. We're not going
to use the y-axis, why well because we
won't need one as you'll see just now.
We're going to use s and we're going to
create, we're going to add a geometry and
the geom is going to be geom underscore
histogram and here we're going to say
binwidth equals 10.
So that's how we want to bin all
variable x for this histogram. So if I run
s now, if I run s plus what you'll see is a
histogram that appeared, so basically
binwidth is controlling how wide these
been R's and I'm just saying 10 million
in each bin so that zero to ten that's
ten to twenty twenty to thirty and
basically each one of these bars is telling
us how many movies fall into that bin. so
how many movies they were in our data
set. There's about 25-50, so I don't know,
like around 30, 32, 35 movies with 0 to
10 million budget and then there's
between just under 75 or on 70 movies,
well if on to 20 million dollar budget,
there's are about a hundred twenty
movies with a budget of 20 to 30 million
dollars and so on. So that's how this is
histogram works, you can change the bin width.
You can make it five and you'll have
more,
you can make it 50 then you'll have less
and so on. So we're going to keep it a 10.
That's how you construct a histogram and
now you can also see why we only needed
one aesthetic X that's because that's
all we have. We have the budget millions
and then this new variable over here
which is count is generated by R and
that's why it's also it's not just a
geometry it's actually a statistic
because R is aggregating values, first of all
it was creating these bins for you and then
it's aggregating your rows or your
observations, your data set into
these bins and that's where the
statistical part comes from. Alright so
it looks like a skewed normal
distribution so most movies have a lower
budget somewhere, somewhere around 30
million plus minus a couple 10 million.
Alright so how do we add color to this?
Well this is going to be a bit of a
surprise.
Add color we're going to say, I 'll just
copy this line going to copy this line
and here we'll say comma. Now we want to
map the color. We want to map the color
to genre right? We don't want to set the
color. We could set the color so I could
just say, oh well okay, I'm going to
secure a way, the secret is it's
not color it's fill. So if I say fill
equals lets say green, well in quotation
marks.
You'll see that became green, but I want
to that's setting the color I don't want
to set the color I want to map the color.
I want to say aesthetics and because
it's more complex process remember, so
we're going to fill equals genre and
color is reserved for something else here,
color is the outline. Fill is the
fill of these boxes. So there we go, you
can see now it looks some looks a little
bit like like these squares that
and the colors are similar sometimes. So
it looks like they're merging into each
other and we don't want that. We wanted
separate, right? So let's add a border, add
a border and I 'm going to copy this
again but the border now I don't want to
map it I want to set it. I want to say
that's not going to put it inside these
aesthetic I 'm just gonna to aesthetic
function. I 'm just going to say color equals
black right? So let me make some
space and if I run this now. You can see
that looks much better like
that don't you agree? When you have this
black border around it it makes it stand
out like pop out so much more. So that's
a great one and this is going to be our
chart number three, right? This is going
to be chart number three but in fact
we will also we will improve it at the
end of the section, we'll improve this
chart a little bit. So we won't copy it
into the visualization into the
presentation yet.
Alright and finally for today I wanted
to show you how to create density chart.
Now you might not need them ever
sometimes you may need them density
charts. So they basically illustrate the
probability density function so instead
of S geom histogram.  I'm going to say S
geom density. Now inside I want, so if
I run that, you'll see that's the
density of course it's not not a
beautiful yet. It looks cool right? Looks
smooth but let's make it even better.
We'll say aesthetics fill equals a genre.
Just like we did before with the plot,
so there we go.
The only problem here is that they're
all behind each other, so they're not on
top of each other you can't really see what's
going on. So we're going to add a
secret parameter here which is called
position and equals just type in position
stack. So if you' run that, you'll see
that they're stacked on top of each
other and we got pretty cool visualization
here worth, worth looking at.
Although we won't included in R
presentation because it's really hard to
explain to executive what a probability
density function is over here and you
know that every single point has a
probability of 0 but the probability of
a certain band is given by its area that
is a nightmare and I really don't
recommend doing that. So we're not going to
add this all the beautiful chart into
our presentation. We'll add the bar charts
and histograms instead. I which it's also
pretty pretty good and will actually
improve it even more.
Alright so there we go, that's how to
create a density chart and if you ever
need them due to the nature of your work
and
and you need the geom density function
also we learned the geom histogram today
and we practice some aesthetics mapping
vs setting you can already see how
they're coming in handy in our chart
creation process.
Alright that's all for today, learned a
couple of new things. Give that a go,
maybe try some try some of those on your
own and I will see you next time. Until
then, happy coding.